TELCODOCS-285: Added sections about Cluster Group Upgrades Operator (#40392)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cnf-about-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator-config.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// Epic CNF-2600 (CNF-2133) (4.10), Story TELCODOCS-285
// * scalability_and_performance/cnf-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="cnf-about-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator-config_{context}"]
= About the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator configuration

> The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator manages the deployment of update policies for one or more SNO clusters in a given duration. The Operator allows you to control the update order of {rh-rhacm}-managed SNO clusters in succession.

Reviewer: The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator manages the deployment of policies for one or more SNO clusters in a given time interval. The Operator allows you to control the update order of {rh-rhacm}-managed SNO clusters.

The Operator supports the orchestration of the following update scenarios:

* {product-title} y-stream and z-stream updates
* Day two operations on y-stream and z-streams

The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR defines the update that you want to apply to a group of clusters based on the following specifications:

* Clusters in the group
* Applicable list of managed policies
* Number of concurrent updates
* Applicable canary updates
* Desired {product-title} version
* Desired Operator version

The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR can be in the following states:

> `UpgradeNotStarted`:: In this state, the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR is created and the `remediationAction` field is set to `inform`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`UpgradeNotStarted`:: This is the initial state of the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR.
```
There is no remediationAction now. It has been renamed to enable and it can be either true/false, the user can set it up.

+
The Operator builds a remediation plan based on the following fields:
+

> * The `clusterSelector` field specifies the labels applied to the clusters that you want to update

Author: Unfortunately, I'll have to stick to "you". That is our preferred pronoun to use in the docs.

> * The `clusters` field specifies the list of clusters to update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `clusters` field specifies a list of clusters to update
```

* The `canaries` fields specifies the clusters for canary updates 
* The `maxConcurrency` field specifies the number of clusters to update in a batch
+
The Operator transitions to the `UpgradeNotCompleted` state after the `remediationAction` field is set to `enforce` and the Operator starts to update the noncompliant clusters.
+
[NOTE]
====

> The administrator can only make changes to the fields that define the remediation plan in the `UpgradeNotStarted` state. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The administrator can only make changes to the spec as long as the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR has one of the states `UpgradeNotStarted` or `UpgradeCannotStart`.
```

====
+
.Sample CR
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterGroupUpgrade
metadata:
  name: cgu
  namespace: default
spec:
  clusters: <1>
  - spoke1
  - spoke2
  - spoke3
  enable: false
  managedPolicies:
  - policy1-common-cluster-version-policy
  - policy2-common-pao-sub-policy
  - policy3-common-ptp-sub-policy
  remediationStrategy: <2>
    canaries: <3>
    - spoke1
    maxConcurrency: 2 <4>
    timeout: 240
status: <5>
  conditions:
  - message: The ClusterGroupUpgrade CR is not enabled
    reason: UpgradeNotStarted
    status: "False"
    type: Ready
----
<1> The list of clusters to update.
<2> The `remediationStrategy` fields define the specifics of the cluster updates.
<3> The remediation plan starts with the clusters listed in the `canaries` field.

> <4> The `maxConcurrency` field defines the maximum number of concurrent updates in a batch. The number of remediation batches is the number of clusters divided by `maxConcurrency`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> The `maxConcurrency` field defines the maximum number of concurrent updates in a batch. The number of remediation batches is the number canary clusters, plus the number of clusters except the canaries divided by `maxConcurrency`. The clusters that are already Compliant with all the managed policies are excluded from the remediation plan.
```

<5> The `status` field displays information about the status of the updates.

`UpgradeNotCompleted`:: In this state, the Operator enforces the policies following the remediation plan defined in the `UpgradeNotStarted` state.
+

> Enforcing the policies of subsequent batches starts immediately after the current batch policies are all compliant. If the batch times out, the Operator moves on to the next batch. The value of this batch timeout is the `timeout` field divided by the number of batches in the remediation plan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enforcing the policies of subsequent batches starts immediately after the current batch has all the clusters Compliant with all the managed policies. If the batch times out, the Operator moves on to the next batch. The value of this batch timeout is the `timeout` field divided by the number of batches in the remediation plan.
```

+

> The platform update is enforced first within a batch. After the platform update policy is compliant, the operator update policies are enforced.

Reviewer: This is no longer accurate, it can be removed. The managed policies are applied in the order they are specified in the spec, it doesn't matter what their type is. It is the user's responsibility to make sure the policies are in the order they want them to be applied.

Author: I think that's an important information, so I'll like to add a note for clarification instead that says:
> The managed policies are applied in the order they are specified in the `managedPolicies` field in the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR.

+
The Operator transitions to the `UpgradeTimedOut` state in two cases:
+

> * If the first batch of `ClusterGroupUpgrade` is set to `canaries` and the policies for this first batch are not compliant within the batch timeout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the current batch is of canary type and the cluster in the batch doesn't become Compliant with all the managed policies within the batch timeout
```
There can be multiple canary clusters and in such a case each canary cluster will be in its own batch.

Author: Sounds like an important detail, I added a clarifying sentence to line 76:
> Each canary cluster forms a single-cluster batch.

> * If the policies for the update are not compliant within the `timeout` value specified in `remediationStrategy`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the clusters for the update are not Compliant with the managed policies within the `timeout` value specified in `remediationStrategy`
```

`UpgradeTimedOut`:: In this state, the Operator periodically checks if all the policies for the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` are compliant.
The periodic checks allow the updates to complete if the updates are prolonged due to network, CPU, or other issues. If the policies are compliant, the Operator transitions to the `UpgradeCompleted` state.

`UpgradeCompleted`:: In this state, the cluster updates are complete.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterGroupUpgrade
metadata:
  name: cgu-upgrade-starts-complete
  namespace: default
spec:
  deleteObjectsOnCompletion: true <1>
  clusters:
  - spoke1
  enable: false
  managedPolicies:
  - policy1-common-cluster-version-policy
  - policy2-common-pao-sub-policy
  remediationStrategy:
    maxConcurrency: 1
    timeout: 240
status:
  conditions:
  - message: The ClusterGroupUpgrade CR has all clusters already compliant with the specified managed policies
    reason: UpgradeCompleted
    status: "False"
    type: Ready
----

> <1> If the `deleteObjectsOnCompletion` field is set to `true`, the Operator deletes the underlying {rh-rhacm} policies. With this configuration, the {rh-rhacm} Hub does not check for compliance after a successful update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The `deleteObjectsOnCompletion` field is by default set to `true`, and if left so, after the upgrade is completed, the Operator deletes the underlying {rh-rhacm} objects that were created as part of the update.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// Epic CNF-2600 (CNF-2133) (4.10), Story TELCODOCS-285
// * scalability_and_performance/cnf-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="cnf-about-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator-config_{context}"]
= About the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator configuration

> The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator manages the deployment of policies for one or more SNO clusters in a given time interval. The Operator allows you to control the update order of {rh-rhacm}-managed SNO clusters.

Author: I'll remove SNO instances in that case and I'd use a bulleted list in that case. What do you think?
> The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator manages the deployment of policies for one or more {product-title} clusters. The Operator allows you to control the following actions:
> * The timing of the update
> * The number of {rh-rhacm}-managed clusters
> * The update order of the clusters

( {product-title} will render as Openshift Container Platform)

The Operator supports the orchestration of the following update scenarios:

* {product-title} y-stream and z-stream updates
* Day two operations on y-stream and z-streams

The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR defines the update that you want to apply to a group of clusters based on the following specifications:

* Clusters in the group
* Blocking `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CRs
* Applicable list of managed policies
* Number of concurrent updates
* Applicable canary updates
* Desired {product-title} version

> * Desired Operator version

Author: Just to see if my understanding is correct:
The versions are specified in the managed policies. These managed policies are created with the `PolicyGenTemplate`. After the policies are created, they can be listed in the `managedPolicies` of `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR. `ClusterGroupUpgrade` is basically used for the automation of the update procedure (defines clusters, canaries, batches, timing, etc). 

So it would be more accurate to delete the versions in this bulleted list and say that the CR defines the remediation plan, instead of the update. Like this:

> The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` custom resource (CR) defines the **remediation plan** that you want to apply to a group of clusters based on the following specifications:
> * Clusters in the group
> * Blocking `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CRs
> * Applicable list of managed policies
> * Number of concurrent updates
> * Applicable canary updates
> * Pre- and post-update actions
> * Update timing

* Pre- and post-update actions
* Update timing

The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR can be in the following states:

`UpgradeNotStarted`:: This is the initial state of the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR.
+
The Operator builds a remediation plan based on the following fields:
+
* The `clusterSelector` field specifies the labels of the clusters that you want to update

> * The `clusters` field specifies a list of clusters to update

Author: I don't remember whom I asked this, but my understanding is that you use in the following ways:
* use both and that creates a mixed list of `clusters` and `clusterSelector`
* use `clusters` only where you specify the cluster to update by name
* use `clusterSelector` where you specify the label to filter for

Does that make sense?

* The `canaries` fields specifies the clusters for canary updates 
* The `maxConcurrency` field specifies the number of clusters to update in a batch
+
The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR transitions to the `UpgradeNotCompleted` state after the remediation plan is successfully completed and after the `enable` field is set to `true`. At this point, the Operator starts to update the `NonCompliant` clusters with the specified managed policies.
+
[NOTE]
====
You can only make changes to the `spec` fields if the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR is either in the `UpgradeNotStarted` or the `UpgradeCannotStart` state. 
====
+
.Sample CR
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterGroupUpgrade
metadata:
  name: cgu
  namespace: default
spec:
  clusters: <1>
  - spoke1
  - spoke2
  - spoke3
  enable: false
  managedPolicies:
  - policy1-common-cluster-version-policy
  - policy2-common-pao-sub-policy

>   - policy3-common-ptp-sub-policy

Reviewer 2: probably include that the set of policies will be applied in the order specified in the managedPolicies field.

  remediationStrategy: <2>
    canaries: <3>
    - spoke1
    maxConcurrency: 2 <4>
    timeout: 240
status: <5>
  conditions:
  - message: The ClusterGroupUpgrade CR is not enabled
    reason: UpgradeNotStarted
    status: "False"
    type: Ready
----
<1> The list of clusters to update.
<2> The `remediationStrategy` fields define the specifics of the cluster updates.

> <3> The remediation plan starts with the clusters listed in the `canaries` field. Each canary cluster forms a single-cluster batch.

Reviewer: Yes, that's correct.

<4> The `maxConcurrency` field defines the maximum number of concurrent updates in a batch. The number of remediation batches is the number of canary clusters, plus the number of clusters (except the canary clusters) divided by `maxConcurrency`. The clusters that are already `Compliant`` with all the managed policies are excluded from the remediation plan.
<5> The `status` field displays information about the status of the updates.

`UpgradeNotCompleted`:: In this state, the Operator enforces the policies following the remediation plan defined in the `UpgradeNotStarted` state.
+
Enforcing the policies of subsequent batches starts immediately after all the clusters of the current batch are `Compliant` with all the managed policies. If the batch times out, the Operator moves on to the next batch. The timeout value of a batch  is the `spec.timeout` field divided by the number of batches in the remediation plan.
+
[NOTE]
====

> The managed policies are applied in the order they are listed in the `managedPolicies` field in the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR.

Author: What do you think?
> The managed policies are applied in the order they are listed in the `managedPolicies` field in the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR. One managed policy is applied at a time. After the specified clusters become compliant to the current policy, the next managed policy on the list will be applied.

@bobfuru I think it would make sense to use future tense here. What's your take on it?

> The managed policies are applied in the order they are listed in the `managedPolicies` field in the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR.

Reviewer: > The managed policies are applied in the order they are listed in the managedPolicies field in the ClusterGroupUpgrade CR. One managed policy is applied at a time. After the specified clusters become compliant to the current policy, the next managed policy for which the cluster is NocCompliant will be applied.

====
+
The Operator transitions to the `UpgradeTimedOut` state in two cases:
+
* If the current batch is a canary type and the cluster in the batch does not change to `Compliant` with all the managed policies
* If the clusters are not `Compliant` with the managed policies within the `timeout` value specified in `remediationStrategy`

`UpgradeTimedOut`:: In this state, the Operator periodically checks if all the policies for the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` are compliant.

> The periodic checks allow the updates to complete if the updates are prolonged due to network, CPU, or other issues. If the policies are compliant, the Operator transitions to the `UpgradeCompleted` state.

Author: @irinamihai Could you take a look at Ian's question?

> The periodic checks allow the updates to complete if the updates are prolonged due to network, CPU, or other issues. If the policies are compliant, the Operator transitions to the `UpgradeCompleted` state.

Reviewer: Yes, every one hour until the CGU is deleted/completed, per the initial design.

> The periodic checks allow the updates to complete if the updates are prolonged due to network, CPU, or other issues. If the policies are compliant, the Operator transitions to the `UpgradeCompleted` state.

Author: Added that detail:
> `UpgradeTimedOut`:: In this state, the Operator checks every hour if all the policies for the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR are compliant. The periodic checks continue until the update is completed or the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR is deleted.

> The periodic checks allow the updates to complete if the updates are prolonged due to network, CPU, or other issues. If the policies are compliant, the Operator transitions to the `UpgradeCompleted` state.

Reviewer 3: Yes. This was added as it was agreed during design that we didn't want a sink/failed state, but rather a timed out state that would allow the controller to keep getting updates from policies in case they completed after the window.

> // Module included in the following assemblies:

Reviewer: I don't think I've seen anything on blocking mechanisms here.

Author: @irinamihai I created a new section with basic info and examples. Please check if I missed anything!

// Epic CNF-2600 (CNF-2133) (4.10), Story TELCODOCS-285
// * scalability_and_performance/cnf-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="cnf-about-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator-config_{context}"]
= About the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator configuration

The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator manages the deployment of policies for one or more {product-title} clusters. The Operator allows you to control the following actions:
* The timing of the update
* The number of {rh-rhacm}-managed clusters
* The update order of the clusters

> The Operator supports the orchestration of the following update scenarios:

Reviewer: I think it would make more sense to use TALO instead of "The Operator" throughout this documentation.

* {product-title} y-stream and z-stream updates
* Day-two operations on y-stream and z-streams

> The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` custom resource (CR) defines the remediation plan that you want to apply to a group of clusters based on the following specifications:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` custom resource (CR) computes the remediation plan that you want to apply to a group of clusters based on the following specifications:
```

* Clusters in the group
* Blocking `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CRs
* Applicable list of managed policies
* Number of concurrent updates
* Applicable canary updates
* Pre- and post-update actions
* Update timing

The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR can be in the following states:

`UpgradeNotStarted`:: This is the initial state of the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR.
+
The Operator builds a remediation plan based on the following fields:
+
* The `clusterSelector` field specifies the labels of the clusters that you want to update.
* The `clusters` field specifies a list of clusters to update.
* The `canaries` fields specifies the clusters for canary updates.
* The `maxConcurrency` field specifies the number of clusters to update in a batch.
+

> The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR transitions to the `UpgradeNotCompleted` state after the remediation plan is successfully completed and after the `enable` field is set to `true`. At this point, the Operator starts to update the non-compliant clusters with the specified managed policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR transitions to the `UpgradeNotCompleted` state after the remediation plan is successfully created and after the `enable` field is set to `true`. At this point, the Operator starts to update the non-compliant clusters with the specified managed policies.
```

<6> Displays information about the status of the updates.

`UpgradeNotCompleted`:: In this state, the Operator enforces the policies following the remediation plan defined in the `UpgradeNotStarted` state.
+
Enforcing the policies of subsequent batches starts immediately after all the clusters of the current batch are compliant with all the managed policies. If the batch times out, the Operator moves on to the next batch. The timeout value of a batch  is the `spec.timeout` field divided by the number of batches in the remediation plan.
+
[NOTE]
====
The managed policies apply in the order they are listed in the `managedPolicies` field in the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR. One managed policy applies to the specified clusters at a time. After the clusters become compliant to the current policy, the next managed policy on the list will apply.
====
+
The Operator transitions to the `UpgradeTimedOut` state in two cases:
+

> * If the current batch is a canary type and the cluster in the batch does not change to compliant with all the managed policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the current batch is a canary type and the cluster in the batch does not become compliant with all the managed policies.
```

* If the clusters are not compliant with the managed policies within the `timeout` value specified in `remediationStrategy`.

`UpgradeTimedOut`:: In this state, the Operator periodically checks if all the policies for the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR are compliant.
The periodic checks allow the updates to complete if the updates are prolonged due to network, CPU, or other issues. If the policies are compliant, the Operator transitions to the `UpgradeCompleted` state.

`UpgradeCompleted`:: In this state, the cluster updates are complete.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterGroupUpgrade
metadata:
  name: cgu-upgrade-starts-complete
  namespace: default
spec:

>   deleteObjects: true <1>

Reviewer: Same with other occurrences below.

  clusters:
  - spoke1
  enable: false
  managedPolicies:
  - policy1-common-cluster-version-policy
  - policy2-common-pao-sub-policy
  remediationStrategy:
    maxConcurrency: 1
    timeout: 240
status:
  conditions:

>   - message: The ClusterGroupUpgrade CR has all clusters already compliant with the specified managed policies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - message: The ClusterGroupUpgrade CR has all clusters compliant with all the managed policies
```

    reason: UpgradeCompleted
    status: "False"
    type: Ready
----

> <1> The value of `deleteObjects` field is `true` by default. After the update, the Operator deletes the underlying {rh-rhacm} objects that were created during the update. The {rh-rhacm} Hub does not check for compliance after a successful update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The value of `spec.action.afterCompletion.deleteObjects` field is `true` by default. After the update, the Operator deletes the underlying {rh-rhacm} objects that were created during the update. The {rh-rhacm} Hub does not check for compliance after a successful update.
```

Author: @irinamihai I'm checking, but I'm not sure where I found that statement. I see that in the repo it states:
> This is to avoid having RHACM Hub to continuously check for compliance since the upgrade has been successful.

Reworded the questionable sentence to:
> This option is to prevent the {rh-rhacm} Hub from continuously checking for compliance after a successful update.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// Epic CNF-2600 (CNF-2133) (4.10), Story TELCODOCS-285
// * scalability_and_performance/cnf-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="cnf-about-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator-config_{context}"]
= About the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator configuration

The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator manages the deployment of {rh-rhacm-first} policies for one or more {product-title} clusters. TALO allows you to control the following actions:

* The timing of the update
* The number of {rh-rhacm}-managed clusters
* The update order of the clusters

TALO supports the orchestration of the {product-title} y-stream and z-stream updates, and day-two operations on y-stream and z-streams.

[id="cnf-about-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator-about-policies_{context}"]
== About managed policies used with Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator

TALO uses {rh-rhacm} policies for cluster updates.

You can deploy managed policies with TALO that meet the following requirements:

> * The policy is for a subscription or platform update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The policy is for an operator subscription or platform update.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// Epic CNF-2600 (CNF-2133) (4.10), Story TELCODOCS-285
// * scalability_and_performance/cnf-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="cnf-about-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator-config_{context}"]
= About the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator configuration

The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator manages the deployment of {rh-rhacm-first} policies for one or more {product-title} clusters. TALO allows you to control the following actions:

* The timing of the update
* The number of {rh-rhacm}-managed clusters
* The update order of the clusters

TALO supports the orchestration of the {product-title} y-stream and z-stream updates, and day-two operations on y-stream and z-streams.

[id="cnf-about-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator-about-policies_{context}"]
== About managed policies used with Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator

> TALO uses {rh-rhacm} policies for cluster updates.

Reviewer: All this section below is repeated in the file below. Is this intended?

Author: No, it was an accident on my part while restructuring the docs. This section will be in a separate file.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// Epic CNF-2600 (CNF-2133) (4.10), Story TELCODOCS-285
// * scalability_and_performance/cnf-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="cnf-about-topology-aware-lifecycle-operator-config_{context}"]
= About the Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator configuration

The Topology Aware Lifecycle Operator manages the deployment of update policies to one or more SNO clusters in a given period of time. The operator allows you to control the update order of {rh-rhacm}-managed SNO clusters in succession.

The operator supports the orchestration of the following update scenarios:

* {product-title} y-stream and z-stream updates
* Day 2 operations on y-stream and z-streams

The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR defines the desired update to a group of clusters based on the following factors:

* Clusters belonging to the group
* Applicable list of managed policies
* Number of concurrent updates
* Canaries

> * Desired OpenShift version

Author: I'll use the extended product name, but _desired_ is probably needed. This is about the version you want to update to

* Desired operator version

The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR can be in the following states:

`UpgradeNotStarted`:: In this state, the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR is created and the `remediationAction` field is set to `inform`.
+
The operator builds a remediation plan based on the `clusters` list and the `remediationStrategy` fields. The operator transitions to the `UpgradeNotCompleted` state once the `remediationAction` field is set to `enforce`.
+
.Sample CR
+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,yaml]
```

----
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterGroupUpgrade
metadata:
  name: test
  namespace: default
spec:
  clusters:
  - spoke1
  - spoke2
  - spoke3
  - spoke4
  - spoke5
  - spoke6
  remediationAction: inform
  remediationStrategy: <1>
    Canaries: <2>
    - spoke1
    maxConcurrency: 2 <3>
  platformUpgrade:
    channel: stable-4.8
    desiredUpdate:
     version: 4.8.1
  	image: quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release:4.8.1-x86_64
      force: true
    upstream: https://amd64.ocp.releases.ci.openshift.org/graph
----
<1> The admin can make changes to clusters and `remediationStrategy` only in this state.
<2> If the canaries field is defined with a list of clusters, the first batch of the remediation plan contains the canary clusters.

> <3> The number of remediation batches is the length of clusters divided by maxConcurrency. Each batch with a length of `maxConcurrency` containing the clusters following the clusters list ordering.

Author: Needs rephrasing

`UpgradeNotCompleted`:: In this state, the operator enforces the policies following the remediation plan defined in the `UpgradeNotStarted` state.
+
Enforcing the policies of subsequent batches start as soon as the current batch policies are all compliant. If the batch times out, the operator moves on to the next batch. The value of this batch timeout is the `timeout` field divided by the number of batches in the remediation plan.
+
The platform update is enforced first within a batch. Once the platform update policy is compliant, the operator update policies are enforced.
+
The operator transitions to the `UpgradeTimedOut` state in two cases:

* If the first batch of `ClusterGroupUpgrade` is set to `canaries` and the policies for this first batch are not compliant within the batch timeout
* If the policies for the update do not turned compliant within the `timeout` value specified in the `remediationStrategy`

`UpgradeTimedOut`:: In this state, the operator periodically checks if all the policies for the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` are compliant. If the policies are compliant, the operator transitions to the `UpgradeCompleted` state.

> The periodic checks allow the updates to complete if the updates take longer due to network, CPU, or other issues. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The periodic checks allow the updates to complete if the updates are prolonged due to network, CPU, or other issues. 
```

`UpgradeCompleted`:: In this state, the cluster updates are complete.
+

> If the `deleteObjectsOnCompletion` field is set to true, the operator deletes the underlying {rh-rhacm} policies. With this configuration, the {rh-rhacm} Hub does not check for compliance after a successful update.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If the `deleteObjectsOnCompletion` field is set to `true`, the Operator deletes the underlying {rh-rhacm} policies. With this configuration, the {rh-rhacm} Hub does not check for compliance after a successful update.
```

Reviewer 4: The `deleteObjectsOnCompletion`  field is not included in the Sample CR. Please include it and define the field in a call out similar to the previous specs .

* Clusters in the group
* Applicable list of managed policies
* Number of concurrent updates
* Applicable canary updates
* Desired {product-title} version
* Desired Operator version

The `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR can be in the following states:

`UpgradeNotStarted`:: In this state, the `ClusterGroupUpgrade` CR is created and the `remediationAction` field is set to `inform`.
+
The Operator builds a remediation plan based on the `clusters` list and the `remediationStrategy` fields. The Operator transitions to the `UpgradeNotCompleted` state after the `remediationAction` field is set to `enforce`.
+
The administrator can make changes to the `clusters` and the `remediationStrategy` fields only in this state.
+
.Sample CR
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterGroupUpgrade
metadata:
  name: test
  namespace: default
spec:
  clusters: <1>
  - spoke1
  - spoke2
  - spoke3
  - spoke4
  - spoke5
  - spoke6
  remediationAction: inform
  remediationStrategy: <2>
    canaries: <3>
    - spoke1
    maxConcurrency: 2 <4>
  platformUpgrade:
    channel: stable-4.8
    desiredUpdate:
     version: 4.8.1

>   	image: quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release:4.8.1-x86_64

Author: Internal. Update
